RAWACF documentation (#313)
SuperDARN/rst: docs/references/general/rawacf.md

<!-- Copyright (C) 2020 SuperDARN Canada, University of Saskatchewan 
author(s): Marina Schmidt 

Disclaimer: License under GNU v3.0, the file is found in the root directory under LICENSE 

-->
# RAWACF files 

RAWACF files are raw files produced at radar sites. 

> Sometimes they are post-processed data product from dat files (see `dattorawacf`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes they are post-processed from IQDAT files or converted from the older-format dat files (see `dattorawacf`).
```

Each file contains data from a different frequency channel. 

!!! Note
        Sometimes modes like `twofsound` will write data into a single file. In this case the two frequencies are marked as two separate channels, denoted using the `channel` parameter. However, it is important to note that some SuperDARN radars have stereo capability (transmitting and receiving on 2 frequencies simultaneously), which was the original intended usage of the `channel` parameter.

## Fields

RAWACF files contain a record that contains scalar and vector fields. 

### Scalars

| Field name              | Units    | Data Type | Description                                                                             |
| :----------             | :-----:  | :-------: | :---                                                                                    |
| *radar.revision.major*  | *None*   | char      | Major version number of the radar operating system                                      |
| *radar.revision.minor*  | *None*   | char      | Minor version number of the radar operating system                                      |

> | *origin.code*           | *None*   | char      | Code indicating origin of the date (0 if generated at the radar)                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *origin.code*           | *None*   | char      | Code indicating origin of the data (0 if generated at the radar)                        |
```

| *offset*                | *us*     | short     | Offset between channels for a stereo radar                                              |
| *rxrise*                | *us*     | short     | Receiver rise time                                                                      |
| *intt.sc*               | *s*      | short     | Number of seconds of integration time                                                   |
| *intt.us*               | *us*     | int       | Number of microseconds of integration time                                              |
| *txpl*                  | *us*     | short     | Transmitted pulse length                                                                |
| *mpinc*                 | *us*     | short     | Multi-pulse increment                                                                   |
| *mppul*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of pulses in the sequence                                                        |
| *mplgs*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of lags estimated from the sequence                                              |

> | *mplgexs*               | *None*   | short     | Number of lags used for tauscan. This field originates from `fittex` algorithm and is not used in RAWACF file format. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *mplgexs*               | *None*   | short     | Number of lags used for tauscan. This field originates from `fitex` algorithm and is not used in RAWACF file format. | 
```

Is it true that the `mplgexs` field is never used in `rawacf` files?  And by that I mean, wouldn't it be possible to produce a `rawacf` file from an `iqdat` file using the full tauscan sequence?

Author: When I ran my script for DSWG to find all fields in RAWACF and Optional ones I got these fields. 
For Example: 
20200101.0001.00.cve.rawacf.bz2 had: `xcfd`, `ifmode`, `mplgexs`, `acfd`

So they get documented. I think the question "if all these fields are valid in RAWACF file?" might be more useful to be addressed to DSWG.

Reviewer: @mts299 sorry but that's not quite what I was getting at.  Presumably, one could produce a `rawacf` file from an `iqdat` file which contains both the forward and reverse tauscan-style pulse sequence using the `acfex` library rather than the usual `acf` library.  In that case, the `mplgexs` field of the `rawacf` file could be important for the end user.  I am also not sure if it is entirely accurate to say that the field originates from the `FITEX` algorithm.  Maybe the second sentence of the description could be completely removed?

Author: Yea sure use the suggestion notation to suggest it and see what people think.

Reviewer 2: Looks like there's still something here for a suggestion on how to reword it for not including the `fitex`.  Maybe I can take a crack at it if needed.

| *ifmode*                | *None*   | short     | A flag indicating that the receiver voltage samples were obtained by digitizing the signal at an intermediate frequency (and then digitally mixed to baseband) instead of mixing to baseband and then digitizing (`ifmode=0`).         |
| *nrang*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of range gates                                                             |
| *frang*                 | *km*     | short     | Distance to the first range gate                                                        |
| *rsep*                  | *km*     | short     | Range seperation                                                                        |

> | *xcf*                   | *None*   | short     | XCF flag, indicates if XCF for elevation angle estimation is available (1) or not (0)   |

Reviewer: The XCF flag indicates more than just the availability of elevation angle measurements (although to be fair most people tend not to use the velocity / power / width / etc derived from the XCF).

Author: Is there a suggestion here? Please use the suggestion box to add extra information. Thank you!

Reviewer 2: I guess there's the possibly that the non-zero xcf value represents how many scans between elevation angle collection?  Is that what you were thinking about @egthomas?  For example, an xcf of 4 would mean elevation angle is collected on every 4th scan.  I can add a suggestion about that if that's what you were thinking @egthomas.

Reviewer: @ksterne you're referring to how the `xcf` option on a radar schedule line determines how frequently XCF data is recorded; this information is generally stored in an `xcnt` variable within the control program and is kept separate from the `xcf` field of the radar parameter block.  I meant that the XCF flag indicates the presence of the full range of fitted parameters from the cross-correlation (velocity, power, width, phi0, their associated errors, etc) - not just the presence of elevation angles, as the documentation currently suggests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *xcf*                   | *None*   | short     | XCF flag, indicating whether the power, velocity, spectral width and phi0 parameters fitted from the cross-correlation function are available (xcf=1) or not available (xcf=0)   |
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarification @egthomas .  I was a little suspicious that something like the xcf count (`xcnt`) from the control program world would make it into the rawacf file, but wouldn't have thought twice about it.  Would you like to commit @ecbland's suggestion?

Author: @ecbland I think he is looking for a suggestion? Or do you want to commit it?

Reviewer 3: @mts299 I think my suggestion is fine here, as it addresses the original comment from @egthomas

| *tfreq*                 | *kHz*    | short     | Transmitted frequency                                                                   |
| *mxpwr*                 | *dB*     | int       | Maximum power                                                                           |
| *lvmax*                 | *None*   | int       | Maximum noise level allowed                                                             |

> | *combf*                 | *None*   | string    | Comment buffer, usually contains the control program name or command line command used to generate the file                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *combf*                 | *None*   | string    | Comment buffer, usually contains the control program name                            |
```

As far as I am aware, there are no RST routines which modify the comment buffer (except maybe `make_sim`) - I think that only occurs on-site via the control program.  Command line commands used to generate the file are stored in the `origin.command` field.

| *thr*                   | *None*   | float     | Threshold factor                                                                        |

### Vectors 

!!! Note
    *slist* contains the range gates that obtained data points during the integration period of the beam. 

| Field name  | Units    | Dimensionality | Data Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :---------- | :-----:  | :-------:      | :---:       | :---                                                                        |
| *ptab*      | *None*   | *[mppul]*      | short       | Pulse table, showing when pulses are transmitted as integer multiples of mpinc/smsep                                                              |
| *ltab*      | *None*   | *[mplgs+1][2]* | short       | Lag table, showing which pulses to use to estimate each lag                 |
| *pwr0*      | *dB*     | *[nrang]*      | float       | Lag zero power (actually SNR), estimated from voltage samples (not fitted)  |
| *slist*     | *None*   | *[0-nrang]*    | short       | List of range gates with ACF/XCF data available |

> | *acfd*      | *None*   | *[2][mplgs][0-nrang]*    | short       | Calculated ACFs                                                             |
> | *xcfd*      | *None*   | *[2][mplgs][0-nrang]*    | char        | Calculated XCFs                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *acfd*      | *None*   | *[2][mplgs][0-nrang]*    | float       | Calculated ACFs                                                             |
| *xcfd*      | *None*   | *[2][mplgs][0-nrang]*    | float       | Calculated XCFs                                                             |
```

## File structure

RAWACF files contain typically 2 hours of data. Individual records in the RAWACF file contain the raw data for a single integration period (usually 3s or 7s, but depends on operating mode of the radar). 

> In the standard operational mode (common mode) where each beam is scanned sequentially, the beam number `bmnum` will change each integration period. However, some control programs will stay on one beam for a whole scan (called a "camping beam"). 

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is the usual definition of a "camping beam" - at least I usually think of a camping beam as one which is revisited more than once during a scan, rather than being sampled on each record throughout the entire scan.

Reviewer 3: Agree with @egthomas, and I think describing camping beams goes beyond the scope of documenting the file format, so we can probably just remove it. 
```suggestion
In the standard operational mode (common mode) where each beam is scanned sequentially, the beam number `bmnum` will change each integration period. 
```

Author: I added it in because people look at our files and question why certain beams scans are not linear so this was a tid bit of information. Since we don't have set beam scanning information I figured we say something her for now so people are not confused when they look at the files and then reference once we have better documentation. 

More information is not bad.

Reviewer 3: We could provide a more generic description of the beam sequences, rather than focusing on just camping beams...

```suggestion
In the standard operational mode (common mode) where each beam is scanned sequentially, the beam number `bmnum` will increase or decrease by 1 after each integration period. Other control programs may involve different beam sequences, including sampling the beams in a different order, or sampling a subset of the available beams.
```

Reviewer 2: That sounds like a good general description of what happens to `bmnum`. I do think it's good to have this extra information as it is a common question from new/external users of what's happening during some non-standard modes.

Reviewer 3: I think my suggestion here is fine as well

A "scan" is a beam sequence which gets repeated. In the common mode (*normal scan*), one scan is completed when each beam has been sampled sequentially from 0 to `bmnum-1` (or `bmnum-1` to 0). Radars with more than 16 beams *may* sample a subset of beams rather than their full field of view in order to maintain a 1min scan time. 

> Scans usually begin on whole-minute boundaries and last for either 1min or 2min. Custom control programs which define different scan lengths may also exist. The `scan` flag is used to indicate the beginning of each scan pattern. A value of 1 or -1 indicates the beginning of the scan, and then the value changes to 0 for the rest the scan. When the `scan` value changes from 0 back to 1 this indicates the end of the scan. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scans usually begin on whole-minute boundaries and last for either 1min or 2min. Custom control programs which define different scan lengths may also exist. The `scan` flag is used to indicate the beginning of each scan pattern. A value of 1 or -1 indicates the beginning of the scan, and then the value changes to 0 for the rest of the scan. When the `scan` value changes from 0 back to 1 this indicates the end of the scan. 
```

<!-- Copyright (C) 2020 SuperDARN Canada, University of Saskatchewan 
author(s): Marina Schmidt 

Disclaimer: License under GNU v3.0, the file is found in the root directory under LICENSE 

-->
# RAWACF files 

RAWACF files are raw files produced at radar sites. 

> Sometime they are post-processed data product from dat files (see `dattorawacf`).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sometimes they are post-processed data product from dat files (see `dattorawacf`).
```

| *time.sc*               | *s*      | short     | Seconds                                                                                 |
| *time.us*               | *us*     | int       | Micro-seconds                                                                           |
| *txpow*                 | *kW*     | short     | Transmitted power                                                                       |
| *nave*                  | *None*   | short     | Number of pulse sequences transmitted                                                   |
| *atten*                 | *None*   | short     | Attenuation level                                                                       |
| *lagfr*                 | *us*     | short     | Lag to first range                                                                      |
| *smsep*                 | *us*     | short     | Sample seperation                                                                       |
| *ercod*                 | *None*   | short     | Error Code                                                                              |

> | *stat.agc*              | *None*   | short     | AGC status word                                                                         |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *stat.agc*              | *None*   | short     | Automatic gain control status word                                                                         |
```

> | *stat.lopwr*            | *None*   | short     | LOPWR status word                                                                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *stat.lopwr*            | *None*   | short     | Low power status word                                                                       |
```

| *noise.search*          | *None*   | float     | Calculated noise from clear frequency search                                            |
| *noise.mean*            | *None*   | float     | Average noise from clear frequency band                                                 |
| *channel*               | *None*   | short     | Channel number, used to denote different Tx/Rx channels on Stereo radars, and to denote changes in radar operating parameters between scans, e.g. alternating between 2 frequencies scan-to-scan      |
| *bmnum*                 | *None*   | short     | Beam number, zero based indexing                                                        |

> | *bmazm*                 | *None*   | float     | Beam azimuth                                                                            |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| *bmazm*                 | *degrees*   | float     | Beam azimuth                                                                            |
```

| *scan*                  | *None*   | short     | Scan flag, switches between 0 to +/-1. For some radars, the sign indicates scan direction. |
| *offset*                | *us*     | short     | Offset between channels for a stereo radar                                              |
| *rxrise*                | *us*     | short     | Receiver rise time                                                                      |
| *intt.sc*               | *s*      | short     | Number of seconds of integration time                                                   |
| *intt.us*               | *us*     | int       | Number of microseconds of integration time                                              |
| *txpl*                  | *us*     | short     | Transmitted pulse length                                                                |

> | *mpinc*                 | *us*     | short     | Multi-pulse increment                                                                   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *mpinc*                 | *us*     | short     | Multi-pulse increment (lag separation)                                                                  |
```

| *mppul*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of pulses in the sequence                                                        |

> | *mplgs*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of lags estimated from the sequence                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *mplgs*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of lags in the lag table                                              |
```

| *mplgexs*               | *None*   | short     | Number of lags used for tauscan. This field originates from `fittex` algorithm and is not used in RAWACF file format. | 

> | *ifmode*                | *None*   | short     | A flag indicating that the receiver voltage samples were obtained by digitizing the signal at an intermediate frequency (and then digitally mixed to baseband) instead of mixing to baseband and then digitizing (`ifmode=0`).         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *ifmode*                | *None*   | short     | A flag indicating that the receiver voltage samples were obtained by digitizing the signal at an intermediate frequency (and then digitally mixed to baseband) instead of directly sampling the RF signals (`ifmode=0`).         |
```

Might need confirmation from some others, but this is better as the "RF mode" didn't involve any mixing.  I haven't read through this completely, but this quickly caught my eye.

Author: @egthomas @aburrell @asreimer @kevinkrieger

Reviewer 2: Still waiting on some input here.  Likely a good input on this could be from @kevinkrieger. Thoughts?

Reviewer 5: I'm sorry but I can't say I'm familiar with the 'ifmode' parameter

Reviewer 2: OK, sounds good, just wondering if it had been implemented in Borealis or not.  If this is only an MSI-style parameter (fhe, fhw, cve, cvw, ade, adw) then my suggestion is a better description.

Reviewer 3: I'm looking at a file from Saskatoon from January 2019 that has `ifmode=-1`

Reviewer 3: It seems like nobody is here sure about the definition of `ifmode`. I'll send an email to a few PIs to see what I can find out.

Reviewer 3: I tried contacting some PIs about this but got no responses. I will commit @ksterne's suggestion and then we can correct it in the future if we get any further input.

> | *nrang*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of range range gates                                                             |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| *nrang*                 | *None*   | short     | Number of range gates                                                             |
```

| *frang*                 | *km*     | short     | Distance to the first range gate                                                        |
| *rsep*                  | *km*     | short     | Range seperation                                                                        |
| *xcf*                   | *None*   | short     | XCF flag, indicates if XCF for elevation angle estimation is available (1) or not (0)   |
| *tfreq*                 | *kHz*    | short     | Transmitted frequency                                                                   |
| *mxpwr*                 | *dB*     | int       | Maximum power                                                                           |
| *lvmax*                 | *None*   | int       | Maximum noise level allowed                                                             |

> | *combf*                 | *None*   | string    | Control program name or command line, or comment buffer                                 |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| *combf*                 | *None*   | string    | Comment buffer, usually contains the control program name or command line command used to generate the file                            |
```

| *rawacf.revision.major* | *None*   | int       | Major version number of the RAWACF algorithm                                            |
| *rawacf.revision.minor* | *None*   | int       | Minor version number of the RAWACF algorithm                                            |
| *thr*                   | *None*   | float     | Threshold factor                                                                        |

### Vectors 

!!! Note
    *slist* contains the range gates that obtained data points during the integration period of the beam. 

| Field name  | Units    | Dimensionality | Data Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :---------- | :-----:  | :-------:      | :---:       | :---                                                                        |

> | *ptab*      | *None*   | *[mppul]*      | short       | Pulse table                                                                 |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| *ptab*      | *None*   | *[mppul]*      | short       | Pulse table, showing when pulses are transmitted as integer multiples of mpinc/smsep                                                              |
```

| *ltab*      | *None*   | *[mplgs+1][2]* | short       | Lag table, showing which pulses to use to estimate each lag                 |

> | *pwr0*      | *dB*     | *[nrang]*      | float       | Lag zero power (actually SNR), estimated from voltage samples (not fitted)  |

Reviewer 4: In rawacf files, is this in dB? I don't remember right now, just want to comment for a double check. If in units of dB and SNR, which noise is used? It might be useful to document this.

Reviewer 3: Good catch @asreimer 
For rawacf files, pwr0 has arbitrary units, not dB. 
For fitacf files, pwr0 is in dB, where the reference is the sky noise.

Author: ``` suggestion
| *pwr0*      | *None*     | *[nrang]*      | float       | Lag zero power (actually SNR), estimated from voltage samples (not fitted)  |
```
Would this be the change @ecbland ?

Reviewer 3: @mts299  We also need to update the description since it's not a SNR at this stage.
```suggestion
| *pwr0*      | *None*     | *[nrang]*      | float       | Lag zero power, estimated from voltage samples (not fitted)  |
```

> | *slist*     | *None*   | *[0-nrang]*    | short       | List of range gates where a good fit to the ACF was achieved during the integration period |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| *slist*     | *None*   | *[0-nrang]*    | short       | List of range gates with ACF/XCF data available |
```
